Congratulations on making it to the end of section six of the complete Android and develop of course
you now know how to include and customize maps in your apps as well as using the user's location and
displaying that to the user centering maps on their location and building more complex apps such as
the hikers watch you also learn how to add activities to your apps and communicate and transfer between
those two activities.
And in this video I will be putting everything together building our memorable places app.
So let's take a look and see what it's going to do.
And here it is.
So pretty simple at the start we've just got a list for you with the option to add a new memorable place
and then when we tap on that takes us to our second activity which is a map activity which will of course
center on the user's location and it will update automatically if for example we change the user locations
of these images around the map we'll update with them and then the user can say they want to save Biggleswade
as a memorable place or somewhere within Biggleswade then they can long press on them which is something
we haven't done before.
So you will need to google that part and it will even save the address of that place as well using geocoding.
And then if we go back to our memorable places list you can see we've got our new place saved and tapping
on that will then take us to that new place.
So that's it.
There's quite a lot of complications within that.
So best of luck I hope it goes well and of course if you have any problems then just follow along with
me afterwards.
Go for it.
All right then well I'm going to start Of course by creating a new project
and we'll call this memorable places
marshmallow as our targets and we're going to have an empty activity for our first activity because
that's where our table of places will be and we'll leave that as main activity and at first challenge
them will be to create our initial table to allow the user to view and add places.
So we'll crack on with that.
Stirred us up again by adding at least few
way there it is in containers.
And then remove the text the
dragon.
FYI.
And then
get an ID.
All right.
So then in the uncreate method we want to create a list of the variable
to link to that list view that we're just created.
So I will cast it as a list view.
You'll find it by its ID or ID totalist.
Then we'll create our array list.
Remember this needs to be a final so we can access it inside the listener method.
So an array list of strings I'll call that place is and this is going to be a new arriviste.
Now obviously when the user opens up the app they won't have any places.
So I'm going to add an initial
had a new place.
So if I click on that top line that will add a new place for them or open them up to allow them to add
any place then we'll create our array adapter.
So a new array adapter using this is the context Android are taught lay out simple list item one has
the layout guide and then places for the array list to match to our list.
And then take a few
and set the adapter
All right apps are there.
I think that should have kept Tovey and
make that a capital as well.
And then while we're here we'll set out on item click listen to
which will have a new depth to view.
It's on item click it's not
like it's there and we use Android studio to implement the on item click method.
And for now just to make sure that everything is connected up writes
will create a taste
just sharing the number in the table that was clicked just to make sure that everything's looking good.
All right.
So we'll just from that make sure our table looks correct and that the tapping works while that setting
up will add a new activity.
From the gallery and this is going to be a Google Maps activity I'll leave that as the default maps
activity.
This is going to be where we allow the user to add new places and view existing places.
And you remember we need to add our Google Maps key there.
So if you are creating a new key you would get that you are able just as we did before and create it.
But I'm going to reuse the key that I created before to sort don't have to do with too many keys.
So we're going to select that with Control-C and then pasted in here with control the
get rid of any spaces in line breaks.
Just in case they cause a problem
and as it's still processing the code to main activity to jump to maps activity when an item is typed
so we will create our intent
which is going to be a new intent
using the application context
and we want to jump to the maps activity topless
and then
we want to put an extra bit of data to go with our intent which I'll call
place number and that's going to be
and then we're just going to start activity with that intent.
So that should jump to our Google Maps activity and give it the information about the place that was
tapped on over to Google Maps activity
will write our code in the on map ready method.
Although for this but we could put it in on create.
Mostly we're going to be interacting with the maps that makes most sense to do it when the map is ready.
So again we're going to create an intent
which is going to be the intent that got us here and then we'll create a new TOSed
just as we did before.
To display
the number that was passed through which I have to remind myself I called Place number.
All right.
So we should be good to go.
I'm just going to get rid of the initial choice over here as we don't need that anymore.
And then let's run our app.
And with any luck now when we tap at a new place on my first list view it will take us to the map and
display what will be a zero from the fact that we tapped the first item in the list view as a toast.
And here we go.
So I had a new place and then there we go.
So we're jumping over and you hopefully saw the toast pop up there.
Interesting they didn't actually display a 0.
I suspect that's because misinterpreting this when it converts it into a string as having no value.
And so it just displayed an empty toast.
That's fine.
It'll still work for our app and of course we can go back easily enough by clicking the back button
and then do that again if we want to.
So now next phase is to zoom in on the users current location.
We don't want them to have to scroll around the whole world to find out where they are to have a new
place if they're going to add a new place it's probably going to be where they are right now.
So let's do that over in maps activity.
And actually it is the case that the variable that we're passing here is an integer rather than a string
so we should really be using get it extra.
So let's use that from now on.
So intent don't get into extra.
And you can see this one requires both a string name and a default value.
So the string name is going to be what we saved over here.
Place number
and we should never need the full value because we'll always get a value but I'll put the full value
of zero.
Just in case and then we'll check to see if that 0 3
and if it is then we want to zoom in on the users location.
All right so flex his wrists.
We've done this a few times before now.
Let's get typing.
So we want a location manager
who would location manager and we want a location listener
called location listener.
We're going to access those from anywhere.
Which is why they're defined in the class itself.
And so they're throughout the classes for them and then we'll set up our location manager.
So we're going to cast this to location manager and we're going to get it from this activity.
Don't get
system service and the service that we want is context dot location service next location listener.
It's going to be a new location listener and it gives us all the methods that we need them.
And as I've done before I'm going to set up a method to process that location Colette's
center map on location
like that and then we'll take our location and we'll generate a lot learn from it as we've done before.
So call it use the location and this is going to be a new line created from location to get latitude
coma location at gets let me into
and then we'll take our map and first we'll clear all the markers then we'll add a new marker
with a new set of marker options.
And that will be a position
which is our use of location and the title
which will actually vary depending on whether the user is viewing an old location or adding a new one.
So I'm going to request that here
and then use it that.
And then finally we'll move the camera
using camera update factory
it's new that Zoom and the
Lachlan is going to be using location and the zeem Let's try six Well maybe 10.
See how that looks.
OK.
So that's how we update the map.
So we'll do that here.
Center map on location the location of course is location
and the title because it's where the user is is going to be your location.
OK.
Of course we need to get the user's last known location if we can as well.
And also request location updates.
So it's almost second nature to you now check to see if they're using a version of the marshmallow
and if they are we'll just request those location updates.
Using the GPS provider
00 we thought time and distance from the last update and location listener has reminded me get in the
manifest when we added the Google Maps activity to added the final location for us but always worth
checking
OK.
Otherwise we need to check to see if we've got permission.
So we're checking the permissions of this activity.
And we're checking manifesto permission
access fine location
and we're checking to see that story the other way around this time to see if that's equal to package
manager got permission granted just for a bit of variety.
So if it is that means we have permission.
So in fact we can copy and paste this to start getting updates and we'll also get the last known location
which will get from location manager talk get the last known location from the location manager CPS
provider
and then we want to send a map on location using last known location.
And again your location will be our title.
All right we're nearly there.
We just have to add the final on request permissions result.
And we're going to check as usual if grand results start length is greater than zero and ground results.
0 3 is equal to package manager
permission granted.
Then we know we're good to go.
But we also have to check
we actually have the permission so context combate check self permission.
This as the context and then manifest permission to access file location
is equal to the package manager.
Permission granted.
If that's the case then we can request location updates which are day by grabbing the code from down
there.
All right so I think we'll get to go when we jump to the second activity the maps activity we should
find that it checks for an intent placed number of 0 which it should get because we're pressing the
first number in the table first item in the table and then it will set up the location manager and location
listener.
If we're in a version of Android before marshmallow then it will just start requesting the location
updates.
Otherwise it will check to see if we've got permission.
And in fact I've just realized that we don't have the request to ask for permission if we don't have
it.
So let's use that in the activity compatibility not request permissions.
This and then we create a new array of strings which has a single item in it which is manifest
permission to access find location and our quest code which is just going to be a 1.
Right.
So let's try that again.
We'll look at it at the moment.
Worked fine but it wouldn't actually ask for the location which is something that's pretty fundamental
to getting and updating the location
while that's getting out just get rid of the carried to Center in Sydney which we don't want.
All right so here we go.
Let's tap at any place and they should now jump us over to the map.
And after asking permission for the device's location which will allow then it should send to on our
current location slightly hard to tell if it's done that so let's
just update the location.
Using the extended controls and there we go.
Wonderful.
So that's all looking good.
I'm slightly concerned about the fact that it didn't center the map or didn't appear to center the map
on the location.
Ah ok.
Yep that's good.
So it's requesting location updates when permission is granted but it's not using the last known location
and updating that.
So I'm going to add that code in there as well.
So now it'll show the right location immediately after the user has given us permission to use their
location.
So we now zoomed in on the users location.
What I'm now going to remove is this market in the middle because
we only want that marker if we're showing them a location that they've already saved.
So I'm going to do just a quick check to see if title is equal to your location.
In fact auto checked if it's not equal to your location and only then will we add the marker.
All right.
Now we need to add that feature I remember I mentioned at the beginning with the long press to add a
marker.
So this is something we haven't done before.
So let's see if we can figure out how to do it.
So Android long press marker map something that should do the trick
OK.
That first result looks pretty promising.
I'm going to bypass that.
And here we go.
That that actually looks pretty simple.
We said an on map long click listener and then we set an on map long click method to add the marker.
At that point.
OK so over to our code
let's get our Google map and set the long click listener
using this.
And you can see that gives us an error because this refers to our maps activity which doesn't have the
map long click listener that we need if we scroll up here.
We should be able to see the whole code.
There we go.
So we can now use
on map long click listener if we added in
to the classes that are maps activity implements and old enter as usual.
And now and a very hopefully will implement the methods for MAP long calculus for us as anyone on map
long click.
There we go.
And now for now we'll just add our marker and we've got some code for adding our marker somewhere in
there it is
so let's bring this down so you can see we've got a lot along.
Returned by this method that will be where they clicked or where they long pressed.
So I can use that as my permission and for the title for now
I'll put you on a memorable place.
All right.
So let's try that out.
We should now be able to long press on the map and it will add a marker with the title of your memorable
place your new member place at that location.
Let's see it in action.
And here we go.
So let's add a new place.
And that then jumps over to the map with our previous locations so no market for the moment so let's
say I want to add a marker.
Hello.
There we go.
And that's our new memorable place.
Brilliant.
Now that sounds so good so far.
But we want to be a bit clever than just adding some random text.
We want to get the address of that place if we possibly can.
So let's
go back over and when they do the long click that's when we want to do the geocoding.
So let's create a new geocoder.
So new geocoder using the application context and the user's local.
Then again as we're used to we'll add
a list of addresses which are call list addresses and we're going to get these from our geocoder using
get from location and the location is of course our lat long talk latitude and lot to learn thought
long and chewed and we only want one result.
We're going to need a try catch around there.
And then we're going to check to see first off list addresses is not null and then
we'll check that there's at least one item in that we only need one.
And then here I'm going to just get the sub thoroughfare and the thoroughfare.
And as long as the thoroughfare exists we'll go ahead with this address.
If that doesn't then we'll use something else.
So if Mr. dresses get zero or
don't get thoroughfare
is not known
then I'll do another check to see if Lith's addresses
get 0
get some thoroughfare.
That's not no.
Then we'll take our address which I'll define up here as a string
so initially will make it an empty string.
So if the sub thoroughfare does exist
then we'll add it to our address and regardless of whether that exists will add
the thoroughfare.
There we go.
And then we want
the address.
All right so that will work fine if we get a value if we don't get a value then we need some way of
identifying this particular location.
So I'm going to use the time and that this is something we haven't got before an android so let's have
a quick search.
I'm going to go for Android and Java get
date time.
If you get go for Android get date time.
You might end up with a non technical response so this looks pretty perfect.
OK so that's good but I don't just want the number of seconds again useful.
It'd be nice if someone could tell me how to get the full date.
Aha OK.
Yeah this looks perfect.
So this is getting it in the format your year month month date date our minutes and seconds
so let's do a check to see if address is still empty.
If we weren't successful
with our geocoding
then
there is an
if you've got many to choose from.
I normally just go for the Android version
then all set.
You can see I've made a mistake there.
I chose one that required Android API level 24 and we're trying to support level 23 here.
So let's get rid of
simple format and then add in the other one and then we get
and I'm going to turn this around slightly.
So we've got minutes minutes hours hours
and then leave the year month and day.
So there's hopefully less confusion than there would otherwise be about whether the month comes before
the day or the other way around.
All right.
So let's get that ago
our next challenge of course if this works is to actually save that item on our app so that it displays
in the memorable places and actually become memorable to the app and every game she gets updated it's
actually gone straight to this activity.
So let's have a look.
Excellent.
We've got
the correct address them to try another one.
Ok that one.
Excellent.
Sorry I couldn't get the correct address.
So it's created a Deighton time although that doesn't make a lot of sense.
I think a lot
a little bit of punctuation in there.
And I think there should be hours hours minutes minutes then it would be 15 47 rather than 47 15.
OK.
So now we need to think about how we going to save these things.
Obviously we've got our places array list but we're also going to need to save the actual locations.
So we're going to need a number of very least
and this is going to be an array list of lines which will be locations
and this is going to be a new array list.
And we'll initially add a new loan
which is just going to be 0 0 or so that we refer to the supposed location of the at a new place item
in our array list.
Otherwise everything will get out of sync.
So if we get back over to our maps activity at this point we don't just want to add a marker.
We want to add a location.
But of course the places and locations are rails are in the main activity and we want to update them
from the maps activity.
That's not something we've done before.
So let's see if we can figure out how to do it.
So Android Update variable from different activity perhaps something like that
here we go.
How do I get a variable in another activity.
So we know how to transfer variables between activities but that's not quite what we want to do here.
We want to update a variable.
Aha here we go.
If we declare them as static variables then we can access using activity one for example don't.
And then the variable name.
Let's try that.
So let's change these variable types to static which means they will be available from anywhere in our
app i.e. from any activity.
But you'll notice that we can't define a static variable within the uncreate method.
We need to define them in the class itself.
So that's fine.
Now they are both static variable so we should be able to access them from here using main activity
dot places and there we go.
So now we can use main activity to our places and we can add.
And the thing we're going to add is the address of the place and we're also going to add two locations
the Lachlan which is that long OK and I'd quite like to see a quick toast.
Just saying
locations saved.
So it's very clear to the user that that location has been saved for them.
So let's give it a try and see if that works as desired.
Here we go.
So I will add a new place
jumped over to the map and then long press locations saved
if we get back.
So it's not on our list.
That's because we need to update the table itself.
And we can do that as we've seen before actually by updating the array adapter but that does mean that
we'll need to be able to access the array adapter
from
both activities.
So let's define it as a static variable and then we can use main activity dot array adapter and notify
dataset changed.
And that should then update the array adapter which will essentially update the list view for us and
show the new location that's look.
OK so once again we'll add a new place
and then that Letchworth Garden City and again says locations saved.
Looks good.
Click back.
And there we go.
So it saved the data on the list view.
Excellent.
So we're pretty close to things that we need to add really to make the app work properly.
The first is to make it so that now when I click on Nevill's green it takes me to that location and
then the second and final thing is to save these bits of data permanently so that they're there every
time the user opens the app.
OK.
So let's see the first one first.
So when the user enters the maps activity remember it initially checks to see Place number 0.
So if it is then it will do all of that.
If not then we won't see Center not on the user's location but on the item that they've just tapped
on.
So we've actually got some code to do that.
We're going to add a markup
just like that on the map.
In fact we should probably clear the map just in case there's any markings on it from previous usage.
And then the position we're going to get from main activity dot locations and then we're going to get
and the number that we're interested in is of course the intent and then get an extra
place number up then it will default to zero just in case there isn't one but we're pretty certain there
will be and then the address is very similar.
But we're getting that from main activity dot places to get.
And then again we want to get the place number
so that should add a marker then we want see Center on the map.
And in fact we'd be much better off just using that method.
That's why it was there after all.
So let's call
center map on location and the location of course is this one.
And the title is here.
Except of course that we're expecting a location and this is a lot Len
So we will have today.
A little bit of manipulating to convert that.
So let's create a location
cold place location
which is going to be a new location using the usual location manager GPS provider and then we're going
to take our location and set the latitude and we're going to get that from main activity locations.
Get that dot latitude and then something pretty similar.
For setting the
long achieved
and then we can just send place location to that method.
So that's a little bit messy up.
I anticipated because we have to convert it from a lot longer to a location but it gets the job done.
Of course your code may well be leaner than that in which case congratulations but let's just check.
We should now be able to save a place and then view that place via the initial list via.
So here we go because of the way that is restarted the app and it hasn't restarted it completely has
actually saved our old place and then added a new at a new place on which messes things up slightly
but actually we should be able to then just tap on that and go straight to that location soop up there
we go.
So now everything is working as desired.
We just need to save everything permanently which I'm afraid will have to wait for the next section
because that is all about permanent data storage.
So as always feel free to google ahead and see how that's done.
But we'll come back and we'll revisit this app at the end of the first video in the next section when
we know how to store data permanently.
And that of course will be our challenge for that video to see how to add permanent storage to our memorable
places.
App For now though congratulations on making it to the end of section six.
We've covered a huge range of ways in which you can use location and maps in your apps and I hope you're
looking forward to Section 7 where we're going to be looking at permanent data storage which will take
us toward building our big app at the end of the section of a news reader.
I'll see you then.